This directory contains data used in Goodman et al. (2022), **Shifting fish distributions impact predation intensity in a sub-Arctic ecosystem** in the journal Ecography. All data are derived from publicly available [NOAA Alaska Fisheries Science Center (AFSC) Groundfish Bottom Trawl Survey Data](https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/alaska/commercial-fishing/alaska-groundfish-bottom-trawl-survey-data).

Data are as follows: 

- :file_folder: `GIS` - this folder contains geographic data used for creating maps. :file_folder: `Alaska Shoreline`, :file_folder: `EBS Survey Boundary`, and :file_folder: `EBS survey grid` contain (UTM zone 2) shapefiles for plotting the Alaskan shoreline, boundary of the NOAA EBS groundfish survey area, and the NOAA EBS groundfish survey stations, respectively. `EBS_grid_5km_UTM.csv` contains coordinates for a regularly spaced extrapolation grid across the EBS survey region.
- :file_folder: `biomass-catch-rate` - contains five csv files (for juvenile pollock and the four predators examined here) with year, latitude, longitude, and biomass (in units kg/km<sup>2</sup>) catch rate for use in VAST species distribution models.
- :file_folder: `PESC` - contains eight csv files (two size classes for each of the four predators) with ear, latitude, longitude, category (1 = biomass catch rate, 2 = prey mass per predator biomass), the corresponding biomass (in units kg/ha or kg<sub>prey</sub>/kg<sub>predator</sub>), and area swept. Biomass catch rate / prey mass per predator biomass data are pre-standardized, so that area swept is fixed for each category.
- :file_folder: `stomach contents` - contains raw [stomach contents data](https://apps-afsc.fisheries.noaa.gov/refm/reem/webdietdata/dietdataintro.php) from the NOAA AFSC ([metadata](https://apps-afsc.fisheries.noaa.gov/REFM/REEM/WebDietData/DBDescription_WebData.pdf)). These data are used in auxiliary analyses and for figures in the supplement.
- `bottom_temp_data.csv` - these are metadata for each of the trawl surveys. They contain more than just temperature data, but are used here  solely for producing maps of bottom temperature.
- `cold_pool_extent_annual.csv` - these data contain annual estimates of the extent of the EBS cold pool (0C, 1C, and 2C) derived by the NOAA AFSC Groundfish Assessment Program.